Dear colleagues,
We are at an exciting time. We are in the process of writing the next chapter in the book of Ericsson. But to move forward, we also need to be clear on where we are going, and what it will take to get there. Or in different terms, defining the purpose and vision of Ericsson. 
Our purpose is our why. Why do we exist? What would a world without Ericsson look like? We all want to be connected to something meaningful and know that what we do matters. We need to be clear and aligned on where we will make our impact as a company.
Our company vision is our view of the future world. And to reach that future, we need to know what we will deliver over the next decade and how our capabilities need to develop. A purpose without vision is an empty promise. A vision without purpose is a capability without a true north. 
Our values form the foundation of how we want to behave. Our values of respect, perseverance and professionalism have been the same for many years and have been very important to us. But I think that we are at a time when it is good to take a hard look at our values and possibly adjust. We want to have values that motivate and inspire us to take Ericsson forward into the next chapter. 
So, what about the Quest for Easy? We must continue to focus on simplicity. We will simply not be successful unless we are easy to do business with. Voice scores and customer feedback confirm that we still have a problem. When our backs are up against the wall, we work at our best because we remove the barriers and work as ONE Ericsson. I still struggle to understand why we don’t behave like that all the time. 
Even if we change how we communicate it, simplicity remains an important foundation that we all need to own.
You are all critically important when we define our purpose, vision and values. We will thus conduct a survey from October 9-16 that will help give feedback to the project team who is working with this task. I encourage you to take part*. (You can access the survey here.)
While I cannot travel to meet with colleagues, we have instead organized some virtual coffee sessions. In a session last week, we discussed anything that was top of mind. One topic that came up is that we still have too many “debate clubs” within Ericsson.
I often get the sense that people feel that a decision is not binding, it is the start of a debate. This is very troubling. You gather facts before the decision is made from people with knowledge and you take a discussion. When decisions are made, we should not debate the decision, but focus on execution. 
One of our focus areas in Ericsson on the Move is making courageous fact-based decisions, this means having the discussion based on facts, making the decision and then sticking to it! If we keep falling back into debate mode, we do not make progress and we create obstacles for others to get the job done. This is unacceptable!
Let’s write our next chapter in a way that makes us all feel proud. The world needs Ericsson, and we have a great future together! 
Take care and stay safe,
Dear colleagues,
What I miss the most over the past few months as we work from home is the continuous interaction with you all at offices around the world. It gives me energy, but also input on what you see as opportunities and issues within our company. Over the last few weeks, we have tried a new format with virtual employee meetings. It is striking to see how the conversations and questions have changed in these meetings compared to a year or two ago. Even though the pandemic is very challenging for many of us, in these meetings you are talking about our company’s future and what it takes to be a technology leader. That is very inspiring!
In the past few years, we have successfully turned around our company. We had to take many tough decisions and make many changes. We had a burning platform – we were losing money or our revenues were lower than our costs – so in a way, the decisions were made in that context. 
But now we are entering a new phase in our Ericsson story. We have a strong business, which gives us the right to define our next step. This allows us to write the new chapter in the book of Ericsson the way we want it.
In this new chapter, we need to take advantage of the changes we see in the industry, with wireless connectivity being front and center. As the technology leader, we will play a key role to positively impact our customers and society, and this is very exciting!
To articulate how we need to approach this next chapter of our story, my leadership team and I have spent time to share why it is important for us to change, how this is different than in the past, and what the focus areas are that we need to address to ensure we remain the technology leader in this fast changing industry. You can read the summary here.
I also had a virtual discussion with Stella Medlicott, where we spoke in even more detail about what this means for us as a company. You can watch the 20-minute discussion here, or click on the play button below.
I am excited about this new chapter, and I hope you are too. With the best people in the industry, I know we can deliver as ONE team. We are Ericsson!
Take care and stay safe,
Dear colleagues,
Last week Friday we announced an important step forward in addressing the enterprise market through the acquisition of Cradlepoint. While 4G was critical for consumer applications, 5G will be driven by enterprise applications. 
Cradlepoint is the market leader in Wireless Edge WAN 4G and 5G Enterprise solutions. They wirelessly connect fixed and temporary sites, mobile units like field forces and IoT devices. This complements our own 5G enterprise portfolio, which includes Dedicated Networks and our IOT Accelerator platform.
By developing enterprise offerings, we can enter a new profit pool for us and with that create future growth.  Cradlepoint matches our key criteria well: a stand-alone, growing and longer-term profitable opportunity that generates a new revenue stream for our customers by allowing a new use case.  
Cradlepoint is a great company built by great people. It boasts a strong gross margin and a proven track record. It will be fully owned by Ericsson and will continue to operate as an independent business under its existing brand to build its portfolio and drive growth. At the same time, we will work on helping Cradlepoint expand outside of North America, where today the market is the biggest.
On Friday, I joined a virtual team meeting with Cradlepoint’s CEO, George Mulhern and Åsa Tamsons, Ericsson’s Head of Business Area Technologies & New Businesses. It was great to meet their team of 675 employees for the first time and welcome them to the Ericsson family.  
Feedback from our customers has so far been positive.  Even the capital market reacted favorably to the transaction. M&A will play an important part of our growth going forward, and we will continue to look for new opportunities with good confidence.  
A lot of great work by our team getting this deal together. Thanks! We can celebrate this, but now the real hard work starts by making sure we all help in accelerating Cradlepoint’s growth and making this a successful acquisition. 
Another forward-looking initiative is our Workplace of the Future project. Like all crises, the global pandemic will accelerate any changes anyway going on. In this case, we believe flexible working locations will be growing in importance. We now know that it is certainly possible to work remotely – we currently have 85,000 colleagues working remotely. I am proud of our team who were able to provide the platforms and support required in the way that they have.
In our project Workplace of the Future, we are looking for lessons learned on how our offices, as well as remote working, will look in the future. 
The project team has gathered insights from research, best practices, as well as from an employee survey which was sent out earlier this year. This survey reached colleagues from 100 offices, which means we now have a lot of valuable and diverse insights! You can find the highlights here. 
This initiative is not about saving costs, but about changing the working environment. I believe the office of the future will look different. It will be a space where we come together to create, collaborate, build connections and socialize. And at the same time, there is also a greater need for flexibility and remote working. The key to success will be to ensure that we can collaborate well, whether we are in the office or at home. I believe offering more flexibility will be necessary to attract future talent.
Thank you to everyone who took the time to respond and contribute! The next step is to design a possible blueprint of what the Workplace of the Future will look like. This is really an exciting initiative and we will keep you updated on the progress that is being made. In the meantime, communication about how we will help address some of the current home office challenges will come soon. 
Stay safe and take care,